#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
theorems-ams-bytype
theorems-ams-extended-bytype
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format dvi
\output_sync 1
\output_sync_macro "\synctex=-1"
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\branch abc
\selected 1
\filename_suffix 0
\color #faf0e6
\end_branch
\branch pf of gamma = 0
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #faf0e6
\end_branch
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes true
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Penalized LIML
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Zhentao Shi
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
June 11, 2015
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am interested to explore uncharted water with you.
 If you choose this project, you will be working on a new estimator that
 no one has ever experimented with.
 Though I have some conjectures about the theoretical results, they must
 be verified by simulations.
 If the outcomes turn out as expected, we have the potential to push this
 programming project into a paper.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a linear IV model, it is well known among econometricians that 2SLS exhibits
 large finite-sample bias when the number of IVs is non-trivial relative
 to the sample size.
 This problem becomes even worse in GMM-Lasso, as Shi (2015)'s simulations
 show.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another well-known fact about the linear IV model is that the limited informatio
n maximum likelihood (LIML) enjoys small bias but suffers from enormous
 variance, because LIML's moments do not exist for any finite sample size
 (Phillips, 1983, 1984).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am interested to check the finite sample performance of an 
\begin_inset Formula $l_{1}$
\end_inset

-penalized LIML.
 This will be a new estimator never seen in the literature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Computing LIML
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hayashi (2000, pp.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

538-541) covers LIML.
 Though we can obtain the standard LIML in closed-form (Hayashi 2000, p.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

541, Eq.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

8.6.9), we have to go back to the likelihood function (Hayashi 2000, p.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

539, Eq.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

8.6.6) to construct the 
\begin_inset Formula $l_{1}$
\end_inset

-penalized LIML.
 Fortunately the optimization problem is straightforward.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Tasks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Below is a brief summary of the tasks.
 I will meet you in person for more detailed instructions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Simulate artificial data as in Shi (2015, p.
\begin_inset space \thinspace{}
\end_inset

12)'s Experiment 1.
 I will provide the R code for this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Estimate the parameter by standard LIML.
 I will provide the R code for this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Estimate the parameter by the 
\begin_inset Formula $l_{1}$
\end_inset

-penalized LIML.
 You will write an R function for this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Calculate the empirical bias and variance of the standard LIML and the 
\begin_inset Formula $l_{1}$
\end_inset

-penalized LIML in simulations.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
